DOC-2864 added two timestamp functions (#291)
tigergraph/gsql-docs: modules/ddl-and-loading/pages/functions/token/gsql_ts_to_epoch_legacy.adoc

= gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy()

Converts a timestamp in canonical string format to Unix epoch time (seconds since `Jan 1, 1970`).

> If the timestamp is invalid or earlier than `1970-01-01 00:00:00`, the function returns a default value (0 by default), ensuring backward compatibility and preventing exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the timestamp is invalid or earlier than `1970-01-01 00:00:00`, the function returns a user-specified value (0 by default), ensuring backward compatibility and preventing exceptions.
```
The use of "default" two times can be confused (default if input is not value; default for the "default").

> We also have another timestamp function, xref:ddl-and-loading:functions/token/gsql_ts_to_epoch.adoc[gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds()], which converts a timestamp to Unix epoch time (seconds since Jan 1st, 1970) and returns an unsigned integer (`UINT`). For broader date range support, consider xref:ddl-and-loading:functions/token/gsql_ts_to_epoch_signed.adoc[gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_signed()].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also have another timestamp function, xref:ddl-and-loading:functions/token/gsql_ts_to_epoch.adoc[gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds()], which converts a timestamp to Unix epoch time (seconds since Jan 1st, 1970) and throws an exception instead of returning a user-specified value, if the input is not valid. For broader date range support, consider xref:ddl-and-loading:functions/token/gsql_ts_to_epoch_signed.adoc[gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_signed()].
```

== Syntax
`gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy(timestamp, defaultTimestamp = 0)`

== Parameters
timestamp::
Required.
The timestamp to convert to Unix epoch time.
The timestamp parameter should be in one of the following formats:
* `"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"`
* `"%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S"`
* `"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.000z"`
** Text after the dot `.` is ignored

defaultTimestamp::
Optional.

> If the timestamp is invalid (e.g., before `Jan 1st, 1970`, or an invalid date format), it returns the provided default value. The default is `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the timestamp is invalid (e.g., before `Jan 1st, 1970`, or an invalid date format), it returns a user-specified value. The default is `0`.
```

== Return type
`uint64_t`

* Returns the epoch seconds for valid timestamps between `1970-01-01 00:00:00` and `9999-12-31 23:59:59`.
* Returns `defaultTimestamp` for abnormal times (pre-1970 or invalid).

== Example

----
// Example with a valid date after 1970
gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy("2022-06-30 22:08:28") -> 1656652105

// Example with a date before 1970 (returns default 0)
gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy("1969-12-31 23:59:59") -> 0

// Example with a date before 1970 and a custom default timestamp
gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy("1969-12-31 23:59:59", 999) -> 999

// Example with an invalid date (returns default 0) gsql_ts_to_epoch_seconds_legacy("2022-02-30 00:00:00") -> 0
----

[TIP]
====

> Use this function if you want to maintain legacy behavior (like TigerGraph 3.6.3), avoid exceptions for invalid or pre-1970 dates, and ensure unsigned integer output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this function if you want to maintain legacy behavior (prior to the availability of `gsql_ts_to_epoch_signed`), avoid exceptions for invalid or pre-1970 dates, and ensure unsigned integer output.
```
